✨ Deprecate ClusterExtension spec.serviceAccount (#2770)
operator-framework/operator-controller: docs/project/olmv1_design_decisions.md

However, it should be noted that the purpose of these primitives is not to enable multi-tenancy. It is to enable administrators to provide configuration for the installation of an extension. The fact that operators can be packaged as separate bundles and parameterized in a way that permits multiple controller installations is incidental, and not something that OLM v1 will encourage or promote.

> ### Make OLM secure by safeguarding ClusterExtension permissions

Reviewer: Wanted to specifically draw attention to the rewrite here, if anybody can think of a better sub-title and wording in the below paragraph.

> ### Secure acces to ClusterExtensions through API access RBAC and ValidatingAdmissionPolicy

Reviewer: Fixed

> ### Secure acces to ClusterExtensions through API access RBAC and ValidatingAdmissionPolicy

Reviewer: Fixed

> Initially, OLMv1 was designed as secure-by-default and required cluster administrators to create ServiceAccounts and associated RBAC to enable the installation of ClusterExtensions. However, any users granted permission to create ClusterExtension resources are effectively being delegated cluster-admin trust. Requiring administrators to create least-privileged RBAC for ClusterExtension installation does not remove this avenue of privilege escalation. Thus, OLMv1 adopts cluster-admin scope directly to eliminate the complexity and UX burden of requiring users to manage ServiceAccounts with difficult-to-determine permissions, and enables simpler internal operations for namespace management and content lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is okay? But I also wonder if we should just use present tense here and just explain what the current/new security model is without referencing the past.

Maybe @michaelryanpeter would have some guidance for us here.

Author: Happy to rewrite this in present tense — waiting for @michaelryanpeter's guidance on the preferred framing before making the change.

Reviewer 3: I agree with emphasizing the present. 

I like going a bit more aggressive with the reframing. WDYT of the following:

- Describe the present state of OLM v1 and the reasons behind the decisions without getting into v0 and the previous iterations of v1
- Add an admonition (maybe an INFO block?) that briefly describes the previous v1 stance.
- (optional) add an additional resources section that could include  the following links:
   - GH issues that explains the change
   - OLM v0 documentation that describes how it works
   - upstream Slack if people have questions

If questions come up in terms of the change, we could always add more documentation or add links to any ADR-like issues/docs. 

If this sounds like a good path forward, I would be happy to help shape the text.

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me. Thanks @michaelryanpeter!

> To safeguard against potential escalation attacks, cluster administrators should treat the ability to create ClusterExtensions as equivalent to having cluster-admin priveleges.

Reviewer: Spelled it right several times then spelled it wrong once 🙃 fixed now.

> To safeguard against potential escalation attacks, cluster administrators should treat the ability to create ClusterExtensions as equivalent to having cluster-admin priveleges.

Author: Fixed by Daniel in a subsequent commit.

> Users who previously set `spec.serviceAccount` in their `ClusterExtension` manifests should remove that field. It is retained in the API for backwards compatibility — the API server will still accept it — but its value is silently ignored and will be removed in a future release. Because the operator-controller now always uses its own cluster-admin service account for all operations, cluster administrators should treat the ability to create or modify `ClusterExtension` resources as equivalent to granting cluster-admin privileges, and guard that access accordingly. To restrict which users may trigger installations, use Kubernetes RBAC on the `ClusterExtension` API; for finer-grained constraints such as limiting which packages, catalogs, namespaces, or upgrade policies a user may specify, pair RBAC with a `ValidatingAdmissionPolicy`. See [Protecting OLMv1 API Access](../howto/how-to-protect-olmv1-api-access.md) for concrete examples of both approaches.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OLMv1 adopts cluster-admin scope directly. Previously, OLM v1 required cluster administrators to create ServiceAccounts and associated RBAC to enable the installation of ClusterExtensions. The current approach provides the following benefits:
- Eliminates the complexity of difficult-to-determine permissions
-  Removes the UX burden of requiring users to manage ServiceAccounts 
- Enables simpler internal operations for namespace management and content lifecycle

NOTE:
The `spec.serviceAccount` field is depricated and will be removed in a future release. The field is retained in the API for backwards compatibility . The API server still accepts the field,  but its value is silently ignored. 

 For more information, see [Protecting OLMv1 API Access](../howto/how-to-protect-olmv1-api-access.md).
```

That might be a little too aggressive, but feel free to take what is useful and disregard what is not.

However, it should be noted that the purpose of these primitives is not to enable multi-tenancy. It is to enable administrators to provide configuration for the installation of an extension. The fact that operators can be packaged as separate bundles and parameterized in a way that permits multiple controller installations is incidental, and not something that OLM v1 will encourage or promote.

### Secure access to ClusterExtensions through API access RBAC and ValidatingAdmissionPolicy

> OLMv1 adopts cluster-admin scope directly. Previously, OLMv1 required cluster administrators to create ServiceAccounts and associated RBAC to enable the installation of ClusterExtensions. The current approach provides the following benefits:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest moving the `Previously... ` sentence into the field deprecation note.

And then I think the next sentence and bullet points are still sort of comparing/contrasting with the previous logic, which again I think is only relevant in the deprecation note (if at all).

I'll try to wordsmith more and use only present tense descriptions and motivations.
